let's talk a little bit about buttwink
buttwink is where our pelvis falls into
posterior pelvic tilt okay or in other
words so it get to that bottom position
just go as deep as you can and the
pelvis postery tilts and that's paired
with Lumber go deeper deeper around the
back more she's too mobile so it's
pretty hard for her to do it okay but
this is where we end up so the posterior
pelvic tilt is paired with flexion of
the lumbar spine or rounding of the
lumbar spine so that's no longer neutral
there's a few reasons why this may
happen Okay sometimes it's a lack of
Mobility sometimes it's a lack of
position
or lack of understanding how to brace
correctly one common error that people
make with bracing and holding what they
seem to be the optimal position which is
a neutral spine is using all of the
muscles to extend their spine so all of
the erector spine a so Arch as hard as
you can okay so starting here right so
so let's just do it put your arms out in
front so going in extreme extension
forces you to fall into buttwink at the
bottom now let's explain the mechanism
so when we're arching really really hard
from the beginning this is called
extending the spine okay we're using our
Rector Spiner now extension of the spine
is also paired with anterior tilt of the
pelvis okay now what happens when we
tilt the pelvis anteriorly go to neutral
so this is neutral so this is a neutral
pelvis position so if we have a look at
this joint here which is the hip joint
we are at 0 degrees of hip flexion okay
so lift one knee that's 90° of hip
flexion okay down 0 degrees of hip
flexion anly rotate the pelvis I don't
know how many but that's a few degrees
of hip flexion okay because the Fe M
stays fixed but relative to the to the
upper thigh bone the pelvis has rotated
anteriorly causing a few degrees of hip
joint flexion at the top of the movement
now we only have a limited amount of hip
joint flexion before we achieve bone on
bone so that's the FEMA so that's the
upper thigh bone in the pelvis or the
acetabulum so the ball in the socket we
are limited on how many degrees of hip
flexion before we are structurally
unable to achieve any more flexion so
let's just assume that's bone on bone
and then she goes a few more degrees up
and then the pelvis rotates posteriorly
so we are only limited with the exact
amount of hip joint flexion that's
available to us and if you're taking a
few valuable degrees at the top of the
movement by anteriorly rotating the
pelvis so standing your squat stance and
anteriorly rotate the pelvis so
accentuate that Arch okay so we're
taking up a few degrees of hip joint
flexion now we're going to lose it at
the bottom so go deep and then Butt Wink
happens at the bottom now what's the
alternative to this so this is where
it's not necessarily a lack of Mobility
but rather a lack of knowledge and
understanding how to position her body
so what we need to consider here to
brace our core isn't to only use our
erect the spine a to Arch our upper
backs or our entire backs we also want
to be bracing our anterior core so what
we need to think about is those muscles
at the front of our anterior core rectus
abdominis otherwise known as your
six-pack muscles when a muscle contracts
it gets the the bones that it's attached
to and brings them two together okay so
the six-pack muscles are attached to her
rib cage and her pelvis so when you're
arching back that's stretching those
muscles so they're not Contracting so
they're really pointless right now so to
contract those six-pack muscles what I
like to teach people is to brace your
abs as if you're going to get punched in
the stomach and you want to protect
yourself and what should happen is the
rib cage will come down towards the
pelvis so there's two parts for that
it's ribs down and I don't want to say
you're posteriorly rotating your pelvis
I just want it to be neutral arch your
back now I want you to posterior rotate
your pelv relative to an anteriorly
rotated position okay but I don't want
it poster rotated I want it neutral so a
CU that I might use for that is piss up
a wall so ribs down posteriorly rotate
your pelvis okay or in other words
neutral pelvis and engage those six-pack
muscles okay that is paired with breath
hold okay so taking a big breath to
brace okay so bracing those six-pack abs
is if she's going to protect herself
from getting punched in the stomach
opening her hips okay and squatting down
as deep as her ability allows so now
what she's done is she started the
position with Zer degrees of hip flexion
so she's got zero hip flexion completely
neutral pelvis and neutral spine and it
allows for her to go as deep as she can
without going into bwing bracing the
anterior core and squatting as deep as
she can